So when talking about encryption and especially in networking we have symmetric and asymmetric encryption.
So these are the two types that we will be focusing on for the rest of this course.
So the symmetric room approach is where we have the same encryption key.
Meaning the same secret between the sender and the receiver and then both of us of course know the algorithm.
So for example if we have this a yes algorithm right here then we are using to server room to encrypt
and decrypt what we are using the same key.
So the key used to encrypt is also the same key used to decrypt.
This means that the sender and the receiver needs to know the same key.
So by using this you will lose what we talked about in the last lecture none repudiation.
Meaning that we can't really track down if something goes wrong or someone get access to some of our
clear takes because every party involved use the same key whereas in symmetric Elementary we can hand
out different keys to different people and then we know if something gets broken or something a compromised
we can track it down to which key was compromised.
But here we are sharing the same key meaning that we need to find a way to transfer this key.
So this is one of the downsides of symmetric key encryption because we need to transfer the keys securely
because if someone gets hold of the key on the way to the receiver then he can decrypt the message in
the same way as our intended receiver can.
So we can really tell the difference between people when we are using this then we have asymmetric encryption
where we have different keys and for different parties meaning that we will have a public key and a
private key.
So take for example this one right here.
Our private key is a key that we need to keep for ourself.
Meaning that this is a hidden key then we use this private key to encrypt this message right here.
So our private key is used to encrypted and then we have a public key associated with this private key.
So the public key allow us to decrypt the message.
So if we send a message by encrypting it using the private it will get into ciphertext our receiver
can use the public key to decrypted.
Then he also knows that we are the one sending it because our public key will only work with our private
key.
So this is a pair of keys.
And then when he needs to send something to us he can use our public key which is available to the people
we choose to share it with.
Remember private keys should never be shared.
You should keep this secret at all cost.
But the public key can be shared to anyone you need to communicate with.
So when you're a partner will send you a message.
He will use the public key to encrypted and then he will send a cipher text.
And the only thing that that can decrypt this message is your private key.
So you're not using the same key for the encryption and decryption besides these two encryption ways.
We also have one way hash which is we take a value using our hashing algorithm and then we hash it into
a cipher text and we can't trace it back meaning that we we cannot take this text and get it into its
original value.
It's a one way to.